## Computer System Architecture

**Bus**: Combination of wires th
##### Back Plane Bus
A single bus interconnecting all the components of a computer.
##### Processor
Responsible for fetching an instruction stored in the memory and executing it.
It contains
- ALU *for manipulating data*
- A number of systems for storing data
- And a **control unit**
	- *control unit* generates necessary control units for fetching and executing the instructions and storing the result.
##### Main memory
Also called as RAM because *CPU* can access any location in memory at random and it can retrieve the binary information stored at that location or can store information at that location.
##### Monitor
It is a visual display unit an serves as the primary output unit.
Over the years the monitors have evolved from pure text display devices to monitors capable of displaying high quality graphics and animations.
##### peripheral devices
I/O devices for example *printer, scanner, speakers, cameras, etc* CPU can provide output to these output devices. And collect input from the input devices over the **Back plane bus**

##### Bus
Bus is a group of wires partioned into *control and address wires*
- Control wires carry control signals to different units
- address wires carry the address of specific data in the memory or I/O 
- And Data wires carry data.

### Generation and Evaluation of Computers.
- First generation computers *1941-1946*
	- These are characterised by their use of vacuum tubes for performing computations and magnetic drums for storage of data.
- Second Generation Computers *1956-1963*
	- Transistors (*-by **Schockly Brattan and Bardeen*** )replaced the vacuum tubes
- $3^{rd}$ Generation computers
	- New invention of **Integrated circuits IC** by *Jack Kilby* in *1958*
		- Much more compact and multiprogramming.
- $4^{th}$ Generation computers *1971 - present*
	- Implementation of **[[ULSI]]** , **[[VLSI]]** 
		- Effeciency and reliability increased.
- $5^{th}$ generation computers *present - beyond*