### Von Neuman Architecture

##### How the computer used to work when invented ?
Instructions were executed manually, a person would operate the computer by using switches or chords, etc.

##### 8085 
- 8 bit data line and
- 16 bit address line => processor can access $2^{16}$ addresses.
- MUI => Move data 
MVI A, 25 H => 2 memory locations (A => accumulator)
- What did von architecture says ?
Code of MVI A (45) will be stored in ROM so for the next time it can use the (A)
- Instruction cycle: 
	- First byte of every program will be an opcode it will be decoded and the operation to perform will be seen.
	- Then will be memory read or write.


#### Van Neuman Computers
In early days of computing one instruction at a time of a program was executed with an operator, setting up each instruction and also initiating execution of each instructions, by flipping some switches on the switch board and then setup required data and controlled paths.

In 1945, Jon Von Neuman proposed that instructions can be encoded and stored in the memory just like data. During the execution of the program stored instructions can be fetched from memory and then decoded to setup the necessary data paths and generate control signals.

*organization of van neuman computers (diagram)*

**Control Unit?** 
It is the Electronic circutory that decodes each fetch and generates necessary control signals that are transmitted to the functional units to carry out the required operation, control signals are responsible to automatically set the required data paths.

##### advantages
1. Eleminated need of operator.
2. Execution became faster as human intervention is removed.

##### Instruction Cycle ?
An instruction is fetched from memory, analysed or decoded, data is fetched, processed and finally result are produced.
The execution of instruction is complete in instruction cycle.
##### Disadvantage
- By 1980, when trying to increase computation, designers noticed few shortcomings of this architecture.
	- A single connection exists between memory and a processor, therefore at any time only one memory access can occur. (either instruction can be fetched or data item can be excessed) 
	- **Bottleneck**: indicates that both fetching and instruction and accessing (read, write) data over the same bus from memory by the processor at the same time in Von Neuman architecture is not possible.
	*This is the bottleneck for achieving high performance computation*.
